Namaste!
Yesterday, we were looking at this gorilla,
remember?
And, we highlighted that self-deception is
perhaps the worst of all deceptions.
Of all the ways one can be deceived…
Plato had pointed out that when you cheat
yourself and delude yourself.
And, I had left a small clue for you. A cartoon.
Today, we are going to talk about another
kind of gorilla.
This gorilla even has a name.
It is called the 800-pound gorilla.
That is what they call it.
What is it actually?
Well.. there is a family.. or a meeting room
full of people.. a gathering of senior folks.
And, while discussing and debating, everybody
seems to be talking about everything except
that one single very big, very huge problem
or thing or person, they seem to avoid just
that one HUGE issue.
They waste time beating around the bush…
They seem to want to be politically correct,
do just their job, and not address the biggest
issue.
That is when people exclaim, “We are not
addressing the 800-pound-gorilla in the room”.
It is sitting.
Large.
Immobile.
Unshakeable.
We need to address that one first.
If we don’t fix that one, nothing else really
matters.
The 800-pound-gorilla is the most important
problem nobody talks about.
Quite some time ago, talking about organisational
structure, a CEO, people under them, people
further downwards, a tree, branches, leaves,
a cartoonist had drawn some interesting structures.
Can you guess which company this one is, he
quipped.
In this particular case, there seems to be
one central celebrity-person in the middle,
his word seems to be law here, he observes
everything that is going on, well.. the answer
is Apple.
In the time of Steve Jobs.
How about this one?
Everybody talking to everybody else…
Three dots on top.
Only the middle dot seems to be handling all
management.
The other two seem to have moved on, minding
their own next adventures..
Can you guess which company this one is?
Sergey Brin.
Larry Page.
Sundar Pitchai.
Google.
This one was good too.
And, then, he showed one more picture.
A structure with no structure or organisation.
With no clear view of who was owning what,
reporting to whom, a company that seems to
allow anybody to do anything… which company
is that, in recent times, … Connecting people?
Facebook!
But, the one cartoon that most people laughed
about, mockingly nodded in acceptance though,
was this one.
This art shows a company with many smaller
teams.
And, these teams seem to be warring against
each other.
And, the cartoonist labeled this as Microsoft.
Today’s CEO at the helm of Microsoft is
Satya Nadella.
He has written a book.
People usually write books after they retire,
after they are done with their duties.
But, he has written one while in active leadership.
In this book, titled Hit Refresh, he starts
thus in the first chapter.
Let me skim through it fast for you.
“I joined Microsoft in 1992.
With grand dreams and desires.
Microsoft had already achieved much and had
a glorious name.
But now though, the situation has changed
a bit.
Innovation seems to be missing.
Bureaucracy has crept in.
Teamwork is absent.
Politics is prevalent.
We have fallen behind.
And, in the midst of these troubled times,
a cartoonist drew the Microsoft organisation
chart as warring gangs, each pointing a gun
at another.”
“I agree. It can’t be ignored.
I have been here quite a long time. It really hurt me.
But, what upset me more was that our own people
just accepted it, without seeming to be hurt.
It really upset me. But, I knew this could be fixed.
So, when I became CEO, and took my first steps
in my new role, I told employees that this
is the change that I want to bring about.
I am going to change the culture. This a classic case of addressing the gorilla.
If he had skipped this part, whatever else
he had talked about, everybody would have
mocked him behind his back, “Hey, we have
seen cartoons about Microsoft.
You blaze guns at each other, we heard.”
But, now that he laid it out plainly up front,
respect for him goes up, attention is grabbed.
My dad used to advise me.
There is a trick for those who slip and fall
on a banana peel, if you don’t want others laughing out loud at you.
The trick is to be the loudest person to laugh,
the first person to laugh.
If you can laugh uncontrollably looking at
your own self, they will come over to help
you, they may also join you in the light laugh,
or just leave you be.
So, if you can address the gorilla, just like
Satya Nadella did, you really get extra credit.
That was an amazing thing he did.
A really good book.
I recommend that you also read the book.
But, before I leave, just a little nitpick
about the book.
Let me find a small “fault”.
The thing is, “Hit Refresh” means… to
get the latest version or update something
you already have.
Get the most recent.
But, that’s so old and previous-century.
Today, we live in the world of Saas.
In this world, even if you do nothing, if
something has changed at the server, you will
be sent an update, “Here, take this, this
is the latest”, that is the world we live
in.
Why would anybody want to “Hit Refresh”
in this kind of a world, I wonder.
I felt a bit bad.
:-) But, otherwise, very good book, go ahead,
read it!
Thank you!